---
layout: episode
lang: en
ref: stop11
permalink: /stops/11en/
type: stopen
section_title: L'IMPOSSIBILE È NOTO
title: FOCUS ON THE FUTURE
page_rank: 11
stop_id: 11
audio_file: audio11en.mp3
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 11-01.jpg
   alt_text: stop 11
 - path: 11-02.jpg
   alt_text: stop 11  
 - path: 11-03.jpg
   alt_text: stop 11
---

Two great revolutionaries who have changed the way of living the Art and not only of the last hundred years of history: Marinetti and Rammellzee. 

Two great personalities concentrated more on the Art / Life relationship lived with the constant and impetuous need to do something important and they actually wanted to CHANGE LIFE !!!!!

Erasing everything that is ordinary, breaking with the past, believing that they were the necessary presuppositions for an "authentic" and "healthy" emancipation of Art and Life in its many aspects.

Marinetti creates the futurist movement, provided with a global, artistic and above all extrartistic ideology, embracing the various fields of human experience, from literature to the figurative arts and music, from customs to morals and politics; that through a production of a series of insights and innovations that open up influence the other historical avant-gardes of the century, Cubism, Dadaism, Surrealism, Metaphysics and even the Pop Art of the Sixties in the United States.

These experiences could be a subversive tool in the hands of practitioners, since some of the assumptions of consensual reality can be questioned in it, and this concept underlies the current great interest in that avant-garde movement that developed at the beginning of the last century and which is even more current than ever, in a historical moment in which even art has become a "product" to be consumed quickly and without any apparent meaning.

Rammellzee with his war of letters in the street is the precursor of an epochal renewal of the art and culture that we live today! He bases all his research on the letter as the minimum unit of language; to this it assigns a spiritual depth and a military architecture, building around it a complex theory called "Iconoclastic Panzerism".

Rammellzee was born in 1960 in New York, from an African American mother and an Italian father who worked as a transit detective. He grew up in the Queens district near the station's train terminal. His work on graffiti began to appear in the 1970s on the subways and subway stations of New York, particularly on train A because it was his local train.

Rammellzee's graffiti and artwork are based on his theory of Gothic futurism, which describes the battle between letters and their symbolic war against any standardization imposed by the rules of the alphabet. His treatise, Ionic treatise of Gothic Futurism with knowledge of the square point remodulated at a point between 720 ° and 1440 °, describes in detail an anarchist plan with which to review the role and deployment of language in society.

An eclectic artist, musician, poet and great experimenter, he is active not only as an artist but above all as a cultural and political revolution, re-appropriating public spaces is the watchword, bypassing places of art such as museums, curators, galleries market for a direct relationship between work and use.

Metaphorically it is not only linked to art, but becomes a cultural mission / revolution, a real counterculture, which changes both the political and the existential approach to the dominant reality.
