---
layout: episode
lang: en
ref: stop12
permalink: /stops/12en/
type: stopen
section_title: L'IMPOSSIBILE È NOTO
title: SALVADOR DALI' AN ICON OF TWENTY CENTURY
page_rank: 12
stop_id: 12
audio_file: audio12en.mp3
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: 12-01.jpg
   alt_text: stop 12
---

Dalí was a skilled painter and extremely virtuous designer, but also famous for the suggestive and bizarre images of his surrealist works. His peculiar pictorial touch was attributed to the influence that the masters of the Renaissance had on him.

Dalí's artistic talent found expression in various fields, including cinema, sculpture and photography, leading him to collaborate with artists in every sector. He traced his "love for all that is golden and excessive.

Dalí, endowed with a great imagination and with the habit of assuming extravagant attitudes, irritated those who loved his art and annoyed his detractors, because of his manners quirks have in some cases captured more attention than his works.

The surrealist movement was founded in Paris by a small group of artists and writers, using elements of its predecessors, such as Dadaism and Cubism, to create something unknown that it completely changed the way art was conceived, its members focused on the subconscious as a means to unlock the power of imagination, they despised rationalism and literary realism and believed that a conscious mind repressed imagination and creativity. became the most influential art movement of the twentieth century.

The figure of Dalì assumes a fundamental importance as a pioneer of the movement. He was involved in all aspects of artistic creation: painting, sculpture, design, drawing, cinema, fashion. He was also able to apply the concept of surrealism to everything he undertook. His unconventional style and his sometimes outrageous ideas were highly sought after also in the commercial sector in contexts such as fashion, photography, advertising and cinema.

Such activities brought his style to the attention of a huge popular audience.

Dalí and his works left not only indelible traces within the surrealist artistic world, the influence of his art invaded the whole world. Even twenty years after his death, everyone is at least familiar with one of his works. The name Dalí is synonymous with magic and remains an icon.

In this last room of the exhibition "The impossible is known", some extravagances and imaginations of an artist were celebrated, celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of his death and some of Picasso's works in a dialogue between the two "influencer" artists of the first of '900.

The double feeling of admiration and rivalry was evident throughout their relationship, and Picasso's Cubist painting certainly encouraged Dalí to experiment with the use of shapes in a Cubist key and brought his art to evolve towards the concept of three-dimensionality.

